Add Jenkins Operator sub-project (#4191)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/jenkins-operator/index.adoc

---
layout: project
title: "Jenkins Operator"
section: projects
tags:
- kubernetes
- infrastructure

> links:

Reviewer: Would be also great to add OpenGraph metadata here. Just to be able to link this page in social media easily

Author: I believe this is what you're requesting. Thanks

  github: 'jenkinsci/kubernetes-operator'
  slack: 'https://virtuslab-oss.slack.com/'
---

The Jenkins Operator is a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/[*Kubernetes Native Operator*] which manages operations for Jenkins on Kubernetes. It has been built with Immutability and declarative Configuration as Code in mind.

== Project Vision

With Jenkins Operator project we want to enable community to run Jenkins in cloud-native environments like Kubernetes. Also, support most of the public cloud providers (AWS, Azure, GCP) in terms of additional capabilities like backups, observability and cloud security.

> With declarative configuration and full lifecycle management based on Operator Framework this can become the de facto standard for running Jenkins on top of Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With declarative configuration and full lifecycle management based on the link:https://operatorframework.io/[Operator Framework] this can become the de facto standard for running Jenkins on top of Kubernetes.
```

=== Notable Features

* Full lifecycle-management of Jenkins using link:https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[*Operator SDK*]

> * Integration with Kubernetes link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/kubernetes-plugin[*Jenkins kubernetes-plugin*]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Integration with Kubernetes plugin:kubernetes-plugin[*Jenkins plugin for Kubernetes*]
```

Also trying to be trademark-compliant here, just in case

* Pipelines as Code link:https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/[*Jenkins pipelines*]

> * Extensibility via Groovy Scripts link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Jenkins+Script+Console[*similar to Jenkins script console*] or link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/configuration-as-code-plugin[*configuration as code plugin*]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extensibility via link:/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts/[*Groovy Init Hook Scripts*] or plugin:configuration-as-code[*Configuration as Code plugin*]
```
